docs/architecture/universal-ingestion.md, before:

# Universal Ingestion Architecture

The Universal Ingestion system provides a unified interface for importing `QuestionnaireSubmission` data from diverse external sources (CSV/Excel files, Moodle API, or external third-party APIs).

## 1. Design Philosophy

- **Decoupled Extraction**: The logic for reading raw data (CSV, API) is separated from the logic of mapping it to internal institutional dimensions.
- **Streaming First**: Utilizes `AsyncIterable` to handle large datasets (e.g., a 100k row CSV) with low memory overhead.
- **Fail-Early Validation**: Structural validation (Zod) happens at the adapter level to ensure the ingestion engine only processes readable records.
- **Stateless Adapters**: Adapters do not maintain state or perform database writes; they only extract and yield standardized raw records.

## 2. Component Structure

### SourceAdapter

The core interface for all data sources.

```typescript
export interface SourceAdapter<TPayload, TData = unknown> {
  extract(
    payload: TPayload,
    config: SourceConfiguration,
  ): AsyncIterable<IngestionRecord<TData>>;
  close?(): Promise<void>;
}
```

### IngestionRecord

Standardized wrapper for yielded data, including error tracking.

```typescript
export interface IngestionRecord<T> {
  data?: T;
  error?: string;
  sourceIdentifier: string | number | Record<string, unknown>;
}
```

### SourceAdapterFactory

Resolves the correct adapter implementation based on the `SourceType`.

- **CSV**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_CSV`
- **EXCEL**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_EXCEL`
- **MOODLE**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_MOODLE`
- **API**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_API`

## 3. Ingestion Flow

The orchestration of the ingestion process is handled by the `IngestionEngine` (Upcoming).

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Input Payload] --> B[SourceAdapterFactory]
    B --> C{Correct Adapter?}
    C -->|CSV| D[CSVAdapter]
    C -->|API| E[APIAdapter]
    C -->|Moodle| F[MoodleAdapter]

    D & E & F --> G[AsyncIterable Stream]
    G --> H[IngestionEngine Orchestrator]

    H --> I[Structural Validation]
    I --> J[Institutional Mapping DSL]
    J --> K[Submission & Scoring Service]
    K --> L[Database]
```

## 4. Key Configurations

- **dryRun**: When enabled, the engine validates and processes the entire stream but skips the final database persistence. Returns a full summary of potential successes and errors.
- **maxErrors**: Threshold for terminating the stream. If errors (parsing or mapping) exceed this limit, the engine halts to prevent massive log bloat or OOM scenarios.

Commit message:

feat(questionnaires): implement ingestion engine orchestrator
- Implement IngestionEngine with bounded concurrency (p-limit) and per-record transactions
- Add IngestionMapperService with DataLoader-backed institutional entity mapping
- Implement speculative dry-run logic with custom DryRunRollbackError and full rollback support
- Add IngestionMappingLoader for batch-efficient lookups of Users, Courses, and Semesters
- Implement memory-safe batch processing (5k limit) and backpressure management
- Add structured result DTOs and correlation ID logging for better observability
- Update architectural documentation and roadmap to reflect implemented features
- Add comprehensive unit tests for orchestration and mapping services

docs/architecture/universal-ingestion.md, after:

# Universal Ingestion Architecture

The Universal Ingestion system provides a unified interface for importing `QuestionnaireSubmission` data from diverse external sources (CSV/Excel files, Moodle API, or external third-party APIs).

## 1. Design Philosophy

- **Decoupled Extraction**: The logic for reading raw data (CSV, API) is separated from the logic of mapping it to internal institutional dimensions.
- **Streaming First**: Utilizes `AsyncIterable` to handle large datasets (e.g., a 100k row CSV) with low memory overhead.
- **Fail-Early Validation**: Structural validation (Zod) happens at the adapter level to ensure the ingestion engine only processes readable records.
- **Stateless Adapters**: Adapters do not maintain state or perform database writes; they only extract and yield standardized raw records.

## 2. Component Structure

### SourceAdapter

The core interface for all data sources.

```typescript
export interface SourceAdapter<TPayload, TData = unknown> {
  extract(
    payload: TPayload,
    config: SourceConfiguration,
  ): AsyncIterable<IngestionRecord<TData>>;
  close?(): Promise<void>;
}
```

### IngestionRecord

Standardized wrapper for yielded data, including error tracking.

```typescript
export interface IngestionRecord<T> {
  data?: T;
  error?: string;
  sourceIdentifier: string | number | Record<string, unknown>;
}
```

### SourceAdapterFactory

Resolves the correct adapter implementation based on the `SourceType`.

- **CSV**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_CSV`
- **EXCEL**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_EXCEL`
- **MOODLE**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_MOODLE`
- **API**: `SOURCE_ADAPTER_API`

## 3. Ingestion Flow

The orchestration of the ingestion process is handled by the `IngestionEngine`. It consumes an `AsyncIterable` stream from an adapter and manages the following:

- **Bounded Concurrency:** Uses `p-limit` to process multiple records simultaneously (default: 6).
- **Transactional Isolation:** Each record is processed in a forked `EntityManager` and a dedicated transaction.
- **Speculative Dry-Run:** Executes full database logic but rolls back the transaction using a custom `DryRunRollbackError`.
- **Resource Management:** Ensures adapters are closed and memory is cleared (`em.clear()`) after each record.
- **Mapping:** Leverages `IngestionMapperService` for institutional context resolution.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Input Payload] --> B[SourceAdapterFactory]
    B --> C{Correct Adapter?}
    C -->|CSV| D[CSVAdapter]
    C -->|API| E[APIAdapter]
    C -->|Moodle| F[MoodleAdapter]

    D & E & F --> G[AsyncIterable Stream]
    G --> H[IngestionEngine Orchestrator]

    H --> I[Structural Validation]
    I --> J[Institutional Mapping DSL]
    J --> K[Submission & Scoring Service]
    K --> L[Database]
```

## 4. Key Configurations

- **dryRun**: When enabled, the engine validates and processes the entire stream but skips the final database persistence. Returns a full summary of potential successes and errors.
- **maxErrors**: Threshold for terminating the stream. If errors (parsing or mapping) exceed this limit, the engine halts to prevent massive log bloat or OOM scenarios.
